## Thesis-Project

# Hospital Recommender: a machine learning based approach at increasing patients’ healthcare information accessibility

We created a hospital recommendation system on hospitals in the Pacific Northwest to provide information on healthcare facilities based on a patient’s personal ranked preferences of hospital features (such as: surgery, nurses, service/staff, childcare, facility, emergency room, etc.). Our system uses a machine learning clustering algorithm which matches hospitals to the patient’s specified features. The algorithms we explored are the K-means Clustering Algorithm and Agglomerative Hierarchical Clustering. From these clusters, we were able to provide a hospital name and its location based on the user’s ranked preferences. Our goal is to help patients make informed choices regarding their health, improving health literacy and health information accessibility. <\b>
The locations of the hospitals and the hospital’s contact information comes from  Data.medicare.gov. We merged this data with the data that we gathered from Google Reviews. We were able to enter in data from Oregon and Washington, however it became tedious to gather data from Idaho and California. Since we wanted to focus our project on developing the clustering algorithms and producing the recommendation, we decided that simulating the data based on the overall ratings of the hospitals was necessary for Idaho and California and for the missing sections in Oregon and Washington. In order to produce the best and most closely accurate results we attempted three methods of data generation. The first method was to just generate random numbers from 1-5 to fill in the spots. Evidently, this was not going to be the most accurate result. We then tried a second method that used the normal (gaussian) distribution to predict a ranking for that category using the standard deviation of each feature. For Idaho and California we used the standard deviation of one. To make our data even more accurate we tried a third procedure. We used normal gaussian distribution with overall ranking as mean and adjusted standard deviation according to if all values of the features were greater than or less than the overall average. 
